EXAMPLE-LOOP.md, before:

# Scheduled Callbacks Demo: Increment the Counter Continously

This example shows how to schedule a callback that increments the `Counter` in the near future and verify it on the Flow Emulator. It starts an infinite loop incrementing the counter by rescheduling a new one in the callback handler.

## Files used

- `cadence/contracts/Counter.cdc`
- `cadence/contracts/CounterLoopCallbackHandler.cdc`
- `cadence/transactions/InitCounterLoopCallbackHandler.cdc`
- `cadence/transactions/ScheduleIncrementInLoop.cdc`
- `cadence/scripts/GetCounter.cdc`

## Prerequisites

```bash
flow deps install
```

## 1) Start the emulator with Scheduled Callbacks

```bash
flow emulator --scheduled-callbacks --block-time 1s
```

Keep this running. Open a new terminal for the next steps.

## 2) Deploy contracts

```bash
flow project deploy --network emulator
```

This deploys `Counter` and `CounterLoopCallbackHandler` (see `flow.json`).

## 3) Initialize the handler capability

Saves a handler resource at `/storage/CounterLoopCallbackHandler` and issues the correct capability for the scheduler.

```bash
flow transactions send cadence/transactions/InitCounterLoopCallbackHandler.cdc \
  --network emulator \
  --signer emulator-account
```

## 4) Check the initial counter

```bash
flow scripts execute cadence/scripts/GetCounter.cdc --network emulator
```

Expected: `Result: 0`

## 5) Schedule an increment in ~2 seconds

Uses `ScheduleIncrementInLoop.cdc` to compute a future timestamp relative to the current block.

```bash
flow transactions send cadence/transactions/ScheduleIncrementInLoop.cdc \
  --network emulator \
  --signer emulator-account \
  --args-json '[
    {"type":"UFix64","value":"2.0"},      
    {"type":"UInt8","value":"1"},        
    {"type":"UInt64","value":"1000"},     
    {"type":"Optional","value":null}
  ]'
```

Notes:

- Priority `1` = Medium. You can use `0` = High or `2` = Low.
- `executionEffort` must be >= 10 (1000 is a safe example value).
- With `--block-time 1s`, blocks seal automatically; after ~3 seconds your scheduled callback should execute.

Now when the callback is executed it automatically schedules another callback in 3 seconds.

## 6) Verify the counter keeps incrementing

Due to the fact that each time we run the scheduled callback we are rescheduling the callback in the future, we can see that the counter is automatically updated each 3 seconds.

```bash
flow scripts execute cadence/scripts/GetCounter.cdc --network emulator
```

Expected: `Result: >= 1`

## Troubleshooting

- Invalid timestamp error: use `ScheduleIncrementInLoop.cdc` with a small delay (e.g., 2.0) so the timestamp is in the future.
- Missing FlowToken vault: on emulator the default account has a vault; if you use a custom account, initialize it accordingly.
- More docs: see `/.cursor/rules/scheduledcallbacks/index.md`, `agent-rules.mdc`, and `flip.md` in this repo.

Commit message:

Renamed Callback to Transaction everywhere

EXAMPLE-LOOP.md, after:

# Scheduled Transactions Demo: Increment the Counter Continously

This example shows how to schedule a transaction that increments the `Counter` in the near future and verify it on the Flow Emulator. It starts an infinite loop incrementing the counter by rescheduling a new one in the transaction handler.

## Files used

- `cadence/contracts/Counter.cdc`
- `cadence/contracts/CounterLoopTransactionHandler.cdc`
- `cadence/transactions/InitCounterLoopTransactionHandler.cdc`
- `cadence/transactions/ScheduleIncrementInLoop.cdc`
- `cadence/scripts/GetCounter.cdc`

## Prerequisites

```bash
flow deps install
```

## 1) Start the emulator with Scheduled Transactions

```bash
flow emulator --scheduled-transactions --block-time 1s
```

Keep this running. Open a new terminal for the next steps.

## 2) Deploy contracts

```bash
flow project deploy --network emulator
```

This deploys `Counter` and `CounterLoopTransactionHandler` (see `flow.json`).

## 3) Initialize the handler capability

Saves a handler resource at `/storage/CounterLoopTransactionHandler` and issues the correct capability for the scheduler.

```bash
flow transactions send cadence/transactions/InitCounterLoopTransactionHandler.cdc \
  --network emulator \
  --signer emulator-account
```

## 4) Check the initial counter

```bash
flow scripts execute cadence/scripts/GetCounter.cdc --network emulator
```

Expected: `Result: 0`

## 5) Schedule an increment in ~2 seconds

Uses `ScheduleIncrementInLoop.cdc` to compute a future timestamp relative to the current block.

```bash
flow transactions send cadence/transactions/ScheduleIncrementInLoop.cdc \
  --network emulator \
  --signer emulator-account \
  --args-json '[
    {"type":"UFix64","value":"2.0"},
    {"type":"UInt8","value":"1"},
    {"type":"UInt64","value":"1000"},
    {"type":"Optional","value":null}
  ]'
```

Notes:

- Priority `1` = Medium. You can use `0` = High or `2` = Low.
- `executionEffort` must be >= 10 (1000 is a safe example value).
- With `--block-time 1s`, blocks seal automatically; after ~3 seconds your scheduled transaction should execute.

Now when the transaction is executed it automatically schedules another transaction in 3 seconds.

## 6) Verify the counter keeps incrementing

Due to the fact that each time we run the scheduled transaction we are rescheduling the transaction in the future, we can see that the counter is automatically updated each 3 seconds.

```bash
flow scripts execute cadence/scripts/GetCounter.cdc --network emulator
```

Expected: `Result: >= 1`

## Troubleshooting

- Invalid timestamp error: use `ScheduleIncrementInLoop.cdc` with a small delay (e.g., 2.0) so the timestamp is in the future.
- Missing FlowToken vault: on emulator the default account has a vault; if you use a custom account, initialize it accordingly.
- More docs: see `/.cursor/rules/scheduledtransactions/index.md`, `agent-rules.mdc`, and `flip.md` in this repo.
